
==============================================
Managing Service Instance Health Check Failure
==============================================

There are multiple Service Instances (SI) in a service chain and a failure of a single SI can cause a traffic black hole. In releases prior to Contrail Release 5.0, when an SI fails, the service chain continues to attract traffic and routes reoriginate on both sides of the service chain. When there are too many requests received at the same time, the vRouter discards the requests without transmitting them and causes a black hole.
Is it the vRouter that discards requests?
With Contrail Release 5.0, when more than one SI in a service chain fails, reorigination of routes on both sides of the service chain is stopped and routes automatically converge to a backup service chain that is part of another Contrail cluster. The vRouter agent drops a connected route when the SI health check fails. A connected route is also dropped if the vRouter agent restarts due to a software failure or when a compute node reboots. You can detect an SI failure by keeping track of corresponding connected routes of the service chain address.
Should it be ’service-chain-address.’ or ’service chain address’?What is a connected route?

.. note:: If an SI that contains multiple VMs is scaled out, the connected route for an SI interface goes down only when all associated VMs have failed.
Relevance of the ’Note’


The control node uses the  service-chain-idin  ServiceChainInfoto link all SIs in a service chain. When the control node detects that any SI of the same service-chain-id is down, it stops reoriginating routes in both directions for all SIs. The control node reoriginates routes only when the connected routes for both directions of all the SIs are up.
Should the above paragraph on Control Nodes be documented?