
========================================
Installing and Using Server Manager Lite
========================================

This topic describes how to install and troubleshoot Server Manager Lite.



Server Manager Lite Overview
----------------------------

Server Manager Lite (SM-Lite), is a streamlined version of the Server Manager software that does not include the reimage function.

SM-Lite supports the Server Manager functions of provisioning, monitoring, inventory, and WebUI. SM-Lite is a replacement for the fab provisioning used in previous versions. SM-Lite allows easy deployment of Contrail provisioning and enables developers to work in isolated environments for Contrail provisioning.

SM-Lite eliminates installation and configuration of DHCP, DNS, and Cobbler services. Additionally, SM-Lite installation setup scripts are enhanced to reduce installation time.

SM-Lite provides a single command to install SM-Lite and provision a Contrail cluster.

SM-Lite introduces additional capabilities into Server Manager. The SM-Lite package is part of the Contrail Server Manager installer Debian package ( ``contrail-server-manager-installer_<version string>.deb`` ).

SM-Lite works with or without having a separate node for the SM-Lite installation, it can be installed on any Contrail node, but it is recommended to install it on the config node.

SM-Lite uses the Server Manager Web UI functionality and it can run on the same node as the Contrail WebUI. Consequently, the default port for the Server Manager Web UI is  9080.

Server Manager and SM-Lite share some code base for provisioning, so changes or enhancements made to Server Manager provisioning functionality are also available in SM-Lite. SM-Lite can be used to deploy Contrail networking, in addition to deploying Contrail Cloud.



Installing Server Manager Lite
------------------------------

The SM-Lite package is included as part of the Server Manager installer package.

The installer package also has other packages such as Server Manager, Server Manager client, Server Manager WebUI, and Server Manager inventory. Before provisioning commands can be executed using SM-Lite, you need to install the Server Manager installer package.

Use the following command to install the Server Manager installer package.
   ::

    dpkg -i *<contrail-server-manager-installer-deb>* 

After the Server Manager installer package is installed, all necessary Server Manager packages, scripts, and so on are made available on the server where it is installed. You can then start using Server Manager Lite commands.



Provisioning Using SM-Lite with Contrail 4.0
--------------------------------------------

For Contrail 4.0, to provision the target systems, use the ``provision_containers.sh`` script.

The ``provision_containers.sh`` script can be run either by specifying cluster, server, and image definition JSON files, or by specifying all of the provisioning parameters in a ``testbed.py`` file (as used previously for provisioning with fab in earlier versions of Contrail software). The Contrail package provided to the script can be either a Contrail networking package or a Contrail cloud package for the base OS platform running on the servers.

   - When using JSON files:
   ::

    /opt/contrail/contrail_server_manager/provision_containers.sh --ij *<image_json_path>* --cj *<cluster_json_path>* --sj *<server_json_path>* --cluster-id *<cluster-id>* 


   - When using ``testbed.py`` file:
   ::

    /opt/contrail/contrail_server_manager/provision_containers.sh --testbed *<testbed>* --contrail-package *<contrail-package>* --cluster-id *<cluster-id>* 


The  provision_containers.shscript performs the following functions:


#. Installs SM-Lite.

   Uses the ``setup.sh`` installation script with the ``-smlite`` option to install the SM-Lite package, ( ``contrail-server-manager-lite_<version-sku>_all.deb`` ) and all other needed packages on the system.



#. Prepares the cluster for Contrail provisioning.

   Translates the parameters in the ``testbed.py`` file or the JSONs provided into Server Manager objects and stores them in the Server Manager database. This specifies the servers in the cluster and the configuration parameters. The cluster-id value is used, if it is specified.



#. Performs a pre-check on the target systems to ensure that they are ready for running provisioning. SM-Lite uses Ansible playbooks and Docker containers from the Contrail Release 4.0 package to provision the Contrail cluster. It also uses Puppet modules and manifests from the Contrail package to provision Openstack.



#. This step issues provisioning commands for the cluster with the given Contrail package.


Server Manager Lite can be installed on any node. We recommend that you install it on the config or controller node. Server Manager Lite can be installed on a separate node other than the Contrail cluster nodes.

The Server Manager WebUI default port is  9080. You can change the port by editing the ``/etc/contrail/config.global.sm.js`` file, and then restarting the ``supervisor-webui-sm`` process.



Displaying the Cluster Status
-----------------------------

The  server-manager display cluster -detailcommand displays the provisioning status of a cluster by role and by role progress.

Use the  server-manager status servercommand to display the current status of the servers.

Use the  server-manager status provisioncommand to display the current status of the provision under progress.



Displaying the SM-Lite Installation and Provisioning Log Files
--------------------------------------------------------------

Log files that provide information during installation and use of SM-Lite software are available at:

   -  ``/var/log/contrail/install_logs/install_<timestamp>.log`` (SM-Lite install)


   -  ``/var/log/contrail/install_logs/provision_<timestamp>.log`` (provisioning command logs)


   -  ``testbed_parser.log`` and ``preconfig.log`` 




Contrail Provisioning Log Files
-------------------------------

For each Puppet run, log files are automatically uploaded to the Server Manager at the following locations:

   -  ``http:<sm-lite-ip-address>/logs`` 


   -  ``/var/log/contrail_server_manager/<target>/<timestamp>.log`` 


   -  ``/var/log/contrail/*`` 


You can also display the status of the processes and services using the ``contrail-status`` command.



**Related Documentation**

-  `Using Server Manager to Automate Provisioning`_ 

-  `Using the Server Manager Web User Interface`_ 

-  `Installing Server Manager`_ 

.. _Using Server Manager to Automate Provisioning: topic-92560.html

.. _Using the Server Manager Web User Interface: topic-96137.html

.. _Installing Server Manager: topic-120557.html
