
=====================================================
Installing the Operating System and Contrail Packages
=====================================================

Install the stock CentOS or Ubuntu operating system image appropriate for your version of Contrail onto the server. See `Supported Platforms Contrail 4.0.x`_  or `Supported Platforms Contrail 4.1.`_  Then install Contrail packages separately.

The following are general guidelines for installing the operating system and preparing to install Contrail.


#. Install a CentOS or Ubuntu minimal distribution as desired on all servers. Typically, for CentOS this is a basic ISO install; for Ubuntu, use a core server install, with only OpenSSH and no other packages. Follow the published operating system installation procedure for the selected operating system; refer to the website for the operating system.



#. Install Contrail Server Manager.



#. Create an image.json with the Ubuntu or CentOS image to be used to reimage the target server.

   Sample JSON Snippet

    ::

        {
           "image": [
             {
                "category": "image",
                "id": "ubuntu-14.04.04",
                "parameters": {
                    "kickseed": "/etc/contrail_smgr/kickstarts/contrail-      ubuntu_trusty.seed",
                    "kickstart": "/etc/contrail_smgr/kickstarts/contrail-ubuntu_trusty.ks"
                 },
                "path": "/path/to/ubuntu-image.iso",
                "type": "ubuntu",
                "version": "14.04.04"
            }
          ]
        }




#. Use Server Manager to add the image.json, to be used for reimaging.  

    ``server-manager add image –f image.json`` 


For full installation information, see `Installing Containerized Contrail Clusters Using Server Manager`_ and– EXTERNAL LINK. PLEASE RE-INSERT. –

**Related Documentation**

-  `Introduction to Containerized Contrail Modules`_ 

- – EXTERNAL LINK. PLEASE RE-INSERT. –

-  `Installing Containerized Contrail Clusters Using Server Manager`_ 

-  `Installing Containerized Contrail Using Server Manager Lite (SM-Lite)`_ 

- – EXTERNAL LINK. PLEASE RE-INSERT. –

-  `Download Software`_  

.. _Installing Containerized Contrail Clusters Using Server Manager: topic-119335.html

.. _Installing Containerized Contrail for Single- and Multi-Node Systems Using Server Manager Lite: topic-119379.html

.. _Introduction to Containerized Contrail Modules: topic-119276.html

.. _Contrail Roles Overview: topic-120312.html

.. _Installing Containerized Contrail Clusters Using Server Manager: topic-119335.html

.. _Installing Containerized Contrail Using Server Manager Lite (SM-Lite): topic-119818.html

.. _Upgrading Contrail 3.2 to 4.0: topic-119681.html

.. _Supported Platforms Contrail 4.0.x: https://www.juniper.net/documentation/en_US/contrail4.0/topics/reference/supported-platforms-40-vnc.html

.. _Supported Platforms Contrail 4.1. : https://www.juniper.net/documentation/en_US/contrail4.1/topics/reference/supported-platforms-41-vnc.html

.. _Download Software : https://www.juniper.net/support/downloads/?p=contrail#sw
